I am more surprised each time I am asked by the developers of this curriculum to provide my own opinion on their topic being presented given that it is not often presented well enough to make an informed decision.  That said, I guess that opinion is just that; a feeling, an emotional reaction and simple assembled thoughts on a topic.  So here is mine given the little extra time I took to formulate one on:  "If jQuery's so great, then why would anyone ever use boring, stupid, old DOM scripting?"

They asked that I "Answer the question in at least one paragraph in your own words. Cite two or more reputable references to support your reasoning."  Well I was able to answer the question in two sentences and thus had to formulate the rest of the single paragraph around it, my issue comes with what the developers are calling "more reputable references" as I question the lack of value in the "sources" they offer in presenting 'the concept'.

The issue is simple.  It is a fact that jQuery is only different from JavaScript in that it is a formulation of it.  It is like saying a car is different than "a four wheeled mode of transportation".  It is not.  It is the same; as it is a formulation of it.  This fact provides two elements which can be evaluated, and thus provide an "opinion" of 'greatness', 'boringness', and/or 'stupidity of'.  Neither of the two elements 'performance' or 'development speed' provide a good means for evaluating these 'criteria' yet they are really the major differences and the elements needing discussion in evaluation of this topic.

Opinions run rampant.  Facts are a better tool for evaluation.  JavaScript may take longer in terms of 'development speed' but it is faster in 'performance' on execution.  This is fact since regardless of which formulation of JavaScript you use...native or jQuery...one is going to take longer to execute.  Thus 'performance' becomes an 'element' for evaluation.  jQuery is believed to have a shorter development time and also comes with a performance cost at the time of execution.  The 'development speed' element can be subjective depending on how it is measured but if well defined it can be used for measurement for evaluations.

One citation for this 'opinion paragraph' is a web site where several versions of the 'formulations' of jQuery are put head to head in a 'test' of performance.  A simple viewing of one pass on this test site will show that even between versions of jQuery 'performance' suffers.  The site is:  http://ejohn.org/files/142/ .

Taking my citations one step further I am offering the following as a site with better 'presentation of concept' discussions:  https://teamtreehouse.com/community/pure-javascript-vs-jquery-2 Additionally, this one site has a clear and concise chart on the topic of jQuery and JavaScript:  http://www.lucemorker.com/blog/javascript-vs-jquery-quick-overview-and-comparison which presents 'facts'.  As for a site that presents information as a 'more reputable' source I again offer:  https://teamtreehouse.com/community/pure-javascript-vs-jquery-2 which also supports 'opinions' offered there with additional external sources such as: http://alistapart.com/blog/post/choosing-vanilla-javascript.

One site that did provide some value from this exercise was:  https://www.sitepoint.com/jquery-vs-raw-javascript-1-dom-forms/ in terms of providing 'syntax' examples.  The https://gomakethings.com/ditching-jquery-for-vanilla-js/ site's reference to the "cutting the mustard method" provided interesting perspective on implementation of browser support.

Summation:  Once again I find the presentation of a topic lacking.  My purpose for evaluating jQuery verses JavaScript is purely for learning purposes and understanding prior to use going forward.  I am here to learn a 'set of skills' based on 'facts' not opinions.  'Speed in development' for me will come with time.  'Performance in execution' of code is always a factor for anyone implementing and therefore is a concern that I now understand and will consider going forward.  'Greatness', 'boringness', and 'stupidity' are none of the elements that I evaluated in this exercise as I have no need for any of them as 'facts' or their 'lack of'.